# KEP-9998 - Unique Config Instance Naming

| KEP: | 9998 |
| :--- | :--- |
| Title: | Unique Config Instance Naming |
| Author: | XiaoDong Duo |
| Status: | Accept |
| Type: | Markdown |
| Created: | 18-Nov-2020 |
| Post-History: |  |

## Introduction

KEP-9998 introduces a unique naming constraint to ensure the uniqueness of the configuration instance, specifies the way of specifying the attributes of the configuration instance, and specifies the way of referencing and overriding the attributes of the configuration instance.

## Overview

KEP-9998 guarantees the uniqueness constraint of configuration instance naming, and simplifies the indexing, reference, and coverage of configuration instances.

## Semantics

* Config instance is named by `pkg:identifier` to ensure global uniqueness, and an error will be reported if it is not unique.
* Support indexing and referencing of attributes in config instance through `selector expression`, suitable for supporting command tools and language binding api of KCL compiler.
  * Select element by pkg:identifier: `pkg:name.name.name`
  * Select elements by pkg:identifier: `pkg:name.{name1, name2}.name`
  * Select all elements by pkg:identifier at a specific level: `pkg:name.*.name`
  * Select element by pkg:identifier with list index: `pkg:name.[0].name`
* Indexing and overriding attributes through selector expression, supporting command tools and language binding api for KCL compiler.
  * Values overridden through dynamic parameters have higher priority than default values in schema definitions and configuration values during config.
  * Attributes with final identifiers cannot be overridden.
* The uniqueness of the exported Instance is defined by the business layer, and the KCL semantic level is not constrained.

## Examples

* The `pkg:identifier` naming of the config instance is guaranteed to be globally unique:

```python
# in pkg1

schema Person:
    name: str
  
JohnDoe = Person { name = "John Doe" }  # unique identifier in pkg1: JohnDoe
JohnDoe = Person { name = "John Doe" }  # unique violation error
```

Different packages can have the same identifier:

```python
# in pkg2

schema Person:
    name: str
  
JohnDoe = Person { name = "John Doe" }  # unique identifier in pkg2: JohnDoe
```

* Unique index by `selector expression` and reference

```python
schema Person:
    name: str

JohnDoe = Person { name = "John Doe" }
print(JohnDoe.name)  # John Doe
```

* Unique index by `selector expression` and override
  
```python
# in pkg1

schema Person:
    name: str = "who"

JohnDoe = Person { name = "John Doe" }
```

The KCL compiler can query specific elements through select expressions:

```python
--path-selector pkg1:JohnDoe.name  # "John Doe"
--path-selector pkg1:*.name  # All config in pkg1
```

The KCL compiler can override the specified config instance with the overrides parameter:

```python
--overrides pkg1:JohnDoe.name="John&Doe"
```

The final output YAML is

```yaml
JohnDoe:
  name: John&Doe
```

* Cannot override attribute with `final` attribute

```python
# in pkg1

schema Person:
    final name: str
  
JohnDoe = Person { name = "John Doe" } 
```

```
--overrides pkg1:JohnDoe.name=\"John&Doe\"  # immutable error
```
